.TH cbc 8 "Version 0.3: 04 December 2020" "CMDB suite manuals" "cmdb, cbc and dnsa collection"
.SH NAME
cbc \- Create Build Config
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cbc
[
.B action
] ( -n | -i )
.B <server specifier>
[
.B build options
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcbc\fP allows you to create preseed and kickstart files for the debian
preseed server build system, and the redhat kickstart build system.
It will also create the needed TFTP and DHCP configuration files to allow for
network booting.
You are able to configure many aspects of build, including the Operating System
type, version and the architecture on which it will run.
You can also configure the partition scheme, locale and the packages installed
on the system, which we call a build \fIvarient\fP.
There is also a semi-automatic network configuration system, called
\fIbuild domains\fP which do the job of assigning IP addresses to the build
configuration.
.PP
Please see the end of this man page for the manual pages for the ancillary
programs which allow you to create the templates for all of these build
options.

.SH OPTIONS
.B Actions (these do not take arguments, only one can be used)
.IP "-a,  --add"
add
.IP "-d,  --display"
display
.IP "-l,  --list"
list
.IP "-m,  --modify"
modify
.IP "-r,  --remove, --delete"
remove
.IP "-w,  --write, --commit"
write
.IP "-u   --view-default"
view defaults
.IP "-v,  --version"
version (no other argsument needed)
.PP
.B Server Specifier
.IP "-n,  --name \fBname\fP"
This is the name of the server.
.PP
.B Build Options
.IP "-o,  --operating-system \fBOperating System\fP"
This is the name of the operating system you want to install on the server.
.IP "-s,  --os-version \fBversion\fP"
This is the version number of the operating system you want to install.
.IP "-t,  --architecture \fBarchitecture\fP"
This is the artitechture of the operating system to be installed. Currently
only \fIi386\fP and \fIx86_64\fP (amd64) are supported.
.IP "-b,  --build-domain, --domain \fBbuild domain\fP"
This is the name of the build domain the server build is to be a part of.
.IP "-x,  --varient \fBvarient\fP"
This is the build varient. This will contain a list of packages to install
so it makes sense to use this as a functional name of the server, e.g. web,
mysql, ldap etc.
.IP "-y,  --gui"
This option will allow console output to go to the graphics driver, and
not the seral console.
.IP "-e,  --locale \fBlocale_id\fP"
This is the database locale_id of the locale you wish to have enabled on the
server.
This provides the information for the locale setting, as well as the
timezone and keyboard mappings.
You can create multiple combinations of these such as AU keymap but CEST
timezone and PL locale, for example.
.IP "-p,  --partition \fBpartition scheme\fP"
This is the name of the partition scheme you wish to use for this installation.
.IP "-k,  --network-card \fBnetwork device\fP"
This is the name of the network device used for the installation, such as 
\fBeth0\fP
.IP "-j,  --hard-disk \fBhard disk device\fP"
This is the device name of the hard disk to install onto, such as \fBsda\fP or
\fBvda\fP for a kvm virtual machine. If the disk is not specified the first
hard disk found in the database will be used
.SH FILES
.I /etc/cmdb/cmdb.conf
.RS
The system wide configuration file for the cmdb / dnsa / cbc suite of
programs. See
.BR cmdb.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.I ~/.cmdb.conf
.RS
User configuration for the cmdb / dnsa / cbc suite of programs. See
.BR cmdb.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
This suite of programs do not make use of environment variables at present
although this may change in the future. Watch this space!
.SH AUTHOR 
Iain M Conochie <iain-at-thargoid-dot-co-dot-uk>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dnsa(8),
.BR cbc(7),
.BR cbcdomain(8),
.BR cbclocale(8),
.BR cbcos(8),
.BR cbcpart(8),
.BR cbcvarient(8),
.BR cbclocale(8),
.BR cmdb(8)
