.TH cbcdomain 8 "Version 0.2: 18 July 2014" "CMDB suite manuals" "cmdb, cbc and dnsa collection"
.SH NAME
cbcdomain \- Create Build Config Domain
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cbcdomain
[
.B action
] [
.B -n name
] [
.B -k network info
] [
.B LDAP info
] [
.B app options
]

.B cbcdomain
[
.B -adjlmrvw
] [
.B -n name
] [
.B -k start_ip,end_ip,gateway,netmask,nameserver
] [
.B -b <basedn> -i <binddn> -s <server> ( -p )
] [
.B -e smtp server
] [
.B -f nfs domain
] [
.B -t ntp server
] [
.B -x xymon server
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcbcdomain\fP is software to manipulate build domains for the cbc program.
You can add, remove, display, modify and list build domains.
Build domains contain network and network application information for a build,
such as an IP range, smtp server, nfs domain, and LDAP directory for
authentication information, ntp server and a xymon monitoring server.
This information will be included in the build to automatically configure your
server when built.
The build domain contains a range of IP address which will be automatically
assigned to the server build.
If used in conjunction with \fBdnsa\fP then these IP addresses will be
automatically added to the domain in DNS, while the PTR record will be created
the next time the reverse zone is built.
.PP
A build domain can be thought of as a regular DNS domain name with some extras
associated with it.
These extras are application services that the server will likey need, such as
an ntp or smtp relay server.
The idea behind this is that if a group of machines are on a subnet, they are
likely to be grouped together in the services they use.
In this scenario you can create multiple sub-domains for different projects,
customer solutions or even different parts of the same project (prod, dr, qa
etc)
.PP
For a more in-depth discussion of how this fits into the build framework,
please consult the \fBcbc(7)\fP man page.
.SH OPTIONS
.B Actions
.IP "Action options require no addition parameter."
.IP -a
Use this to add a build domain.
.IP -d display
Use this to display a build domain, using -n to specify
.IP -j
Use this to display servers build in a build domain, using -n to specify
.IP -l
Use this to list the build domains. 
.IP -m
Use this to modify a build domain, using -n to specify
.IP -r
Use this to remove a build domain, using -n to specify
.IP -w
Use this to write out the dhcpd.networks configuration file
.IP -v
Display version information
.PP
.B Naming
.IP "-n <domain name>
.PP
.B Network Information
.IP "-k start_ip,end_ip,gateway,netmask,nameserver
.PP
.B LDAP Information
.IP "-b <basedn>"
.IP "-i <binddn>"
.IP "-s <server>"
.IP -p
Use ssl in the connection.
.PP
.B Application Configuration
.IP "-e <smtp server>"
.IP "-f <NFS domain>"
for NFS V4
.IP "-t <ntp server>"
.IP "-x <xymon server>"
for the xymon monitoring system.
.PP
.B Options to use together
.IP "Only one action option should be used"
.IP "All actions apart from -l need a -n name"
.IP "Network information required for -a; not applicable for -m"
.IP "LDAP and App Config options are optional for -a and -m; only 1 App Config can be modified at once, but you can modify one or many of the LDAP parameters."
.SH FILES
.I /etc/dnsa/dnsa.conf
.RS
The system wide configuration file for the cmdb / dnsa / cbc suite of
programs. See
.BR dnsa.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.I ~/.dnsa.conf
.RS
User configuration for the cmdb / dnsa / cbc suite of programs. See
.BR dnsa.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
This suite of programs do not make use of environment variables at present
although this may change in the future. Watch this space!
.SH AUTHOR 
Iain M Conochie <iain-at-thargoid-dot-co-dot-uk>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dnsa(8),
.BR cbc(7),
.BR cbc(8),
.BR cbclocale(8),
.BR cbcos(8),
.BR cbcpart(8),
.BR cbcvarient(8)
