.TH cbcos 8 "Version 0.3: 13 July 2020" "CMDB suite manuals" "cmdb, cbc and dnsa collection"
.SH NAME
cbcos \- Create Build Config Operating System
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cbcos
[
.B action
] [
.B details
]

.B cbcos
[
.B -adglrvz
] [
.B -n <name> -e <version alias> -o <version> -s <os alias> -t <arch>
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcbcos\fP is software to add new versions of operating systems to the build
system.
You are able to specify the version number and architecture type.
Currently there are only 2 architecture types, \fIi386\fP and \fIx86_64\fP.
You are also able to specify the version alias for debian based distros, where
each version has a code name, such as \fIsqueeze\fP for version \fI6\fP, or in
the ubuntu world, \fIprecise\fP for version \fI12.04\fP.
These are required for debian based builds but are optional for redhat based
builds.
You are able to add, display, list and remove build operating systems.
Currently the \fBcbc\fP system supports the following operating systems:
\fIdebian, ubuntu\fP and \fIcentos\fP. Soon there will be support for
\fIredhat\fP.
\fBcbcos\fP will also download the boot files for the OS from the mirror
server. You can refresh these boot files using the \fI-g\fP option. You can
specify a specific OS version if you wish, but you do not have to.

.SH OPTIONS
.B Actions
.IP "-a,  --add"
add
.IP "-d,  --display"
display
.IP "-g,  --download"
grab boot files
.IP "-l,  --list"
list
.IP "-r,  --remove, --delete"
remove
.IP "-z,  --set-default"
set OS as default
.IP "-v,  --version"
version (no other argument needed)
.IP "-h,  --help"
display a short help message
.PP
.B Details
.IP "-n,  --name, --os \fBname\fP"
Formal name of the operating system, such as Debian.
.IP "-e,  --version-alias \fBversion alias\fP"
This is used to specify the code name of the debian or ubuntu based version.
.IP "-o,  --os-version \fBversion number\fP"
The specific version number of the operating system.
.IP "-s,  --alias, --os-alias \fBos alias\fP"
This is used to provide an alias to the more formal OS name.
.IP "-t,  --architecture, --os-arch \fBarchitecture\fP"
Currently only \fIi386\fP and \fIx86_64\fP are available.
.PP
.SH FILES
.I /etc/cmdb/cmdb.conf
.RS
The system wide configuration file for the cmdb / dnsa / cbc suite of
programs. See
.BR cmdb.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.I ~/.cmdb.conf
.RS
User configuration for the cmdb / dnsa / cbc suite of programs. See
.BR cmdb.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
This suite of programs do not make use of environment variables at present
although this may change in the future. Watch this space!
.SH AUTHOR 
Iain M Conochie <iain-at-thargoid-dot-co-dot-uk>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dnsa(8),
.BR cbc(7),
.BR cbc(8),
.BR cbcdomain(8),
.BR cbclocale(8),
.BR cbcpart(8),
.BR cbcvarient(8)
