.TH cbcpack 8 "Version 0.2: 15 July 2013" "CMDB suite manuals" "cmdb, cbc and dnsa collection"
.SH NAME
cbcpack \- Create Build Config Packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cbcpack
[
.B action
] [
.B varient
] [
.B operating system
] [
.B package
]

.B cbcpack
[
.B -a | -r | -v
] [
.B -k | -x
] [
.B -eonst
] [
.B -p <package>
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcbcpack\fP allows you to add and remove packages from build varients.
For more details on build varients, see the \fBcbc(7)\fP and
\fBcbcvarient(8)\fP man pages.
You can specify the build varient and specific operating system name and
version or you can add or remove packages from all varients or operating
system versions by not specifying which os / varient you are using.
The package names must match a specific package name for the os you are working
on, as an erroneous package name can lead to the build to fail. 

.SH OPTIONS
.B action
.IP -a
add a package.
.IP -r
remove a package.
.IP -v
version (no other arguments needed)

\fBNote\fP: these options are mutually exclusive.
.PP
.B varient
.IP -k <valias>"
specify the shorthand alias for the varient.
.IP "-x <varient>"
specify the full and formal varient name.

\fBNote\fP: these options are mutually exclusive.
.PP
.B operating system
.IP "-e <version alias>"
specify the alias or code name for the os version.
.IP "-o <version>"
specify the os version number.
.IP "-n <name>"
specify the full and formal operating system name.
.IP "-s <os alias>"
specify the alias for the operating system.
.IP "-t <architecture>
specify the architecture of the operating system. Currently only \fBi386\fP and
\fBx86_64\fP are available.
.PP
\fBNote\fP: only one of os name or os alias and os version or version alias
needs to be given.
.PP
.B package
.IP "-n <package name>"
specify the name of the package
.SH FILES
.I /etc/dnsa/dnsa.conf
.RS
The system wide configuration file for the cmdb / dnsa / cbc suite of
programs. See
.BR dnsa.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.I ~/.dnsa.conf
.RS
User configuration for the cmdb / dnsa / cbc suite of programs. See
.BR dnsa.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
This suite of programs do not make use of environment variables at present
although this may change in the future. Watch this space!
.SH AUTHOR 
Iain M Conochie <iain-at-thargoid-dot-co-dot-uk>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dnsa(8),
.BR cbc(7),
.BR cbc(8),
.BR cbcdomain(8),
.BR cbclocale(8),
.BR cbcos(8),
.BR cbcpart(8),
.BR cbcvarient(8)
