.TH cbcscript 8 "Version 0.2: 07 January 2016" "CMDB suite manuals" "cmdb, cbc and dnsa collection"
.SH NAME
cbcscript \- Create Build Config Scripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cbcscript
[
.B action
]
[
.B type
]
[
.B specifier
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcbcscript\fP add scripts to the final stage of a build. These can be used
to configure the completed build, such as creating configuration files for
software installed, run commands on the new build and in other ways configure
the new build. You can add scripts, and then add arguments for these scripts
,specified by a positional number, so multiple arguments can be provided. These
can be static, or they can be dynamic and based on information from the build.
.PP
You will have to group these scripts and options by \fIbuild domain\fP and
\fIbuild type\fP. Build domains are defined in the \fBcbcdomain\fP command,
whereas the build types are one of the base operating systems you can build
for.
.PP
Action and type switches do not take arguments.

.SH OPTIONS
.B actions
.IP "-a,  --add"
add
.IP "-l,  --list"
list
.IP "-r,  --remove, --delete"
remove
.PP
.B type
.IP "-f,  --script-arg"
arg
.IP "-s,  --script"
script
.PP
These actions specify what you want to do, and what objects you wish to act
on. How you act on them is specified via the options below, which all take
arguments.
.PP
.B specifiers
.IP "-b,  --domain, --build-domain \fBbuild domain\fP"
specify the build domain
.IP "-o,  --number \fBnumber\fP"
specify the argument number
.IP "-g,  --argument \fBargument\fP"
script argument
.IP "-n,  --name \fBname\fP"
the name of the script
.IP "-t,  --type \fBbuild type\fP"
build type operating system
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.B To add a script
.IP
\fBcbcscript -a -s -n \fIscript-name\fR
.PP
.B To add an argument to a script
.IP
\fBcbcscript -a -f -b \fIdomain\fP -n \fIscript-name\fP -g \fIargument\fP -t \fIbuild-type-os\fP -o \fInumber\fR
.PP
.B To list scripts
.IP
\fBcbcscript -l -s\fP
.PP
.B To list script configs for a domain
.IP
\fBcbcscript -l -f -b \fIdomain\fR. You can also add more identifiers if you
want a more specific listing
.PP
.B To remove a script argument
.IP
\fBcbcscript -r -f -b \fIdomain\fP -n \fIscript-name\fP -t \fIbuild-type-os\fP -o \fInumber\fR
.PP
.SH FILES
.I /etc/dnsa/dnsa.conf
.RS
The system wide configuration file for the cmdb / dnsa / cbc suite of
programs. See
.BR dnsa.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.I ~/.dnsa.conf
.RS
User configuration for the cmdb / dnsa / cbc suite of programs. See
.BR dnsa.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
This suite of programs do not make use of environment variables at present
although this may change in the future. Watch this space!
.SH AUTHOR
Iain M Conochie <iain-at-thargoid-dot-co-dot-uk>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cbcdomain(8) cbcsysp(8)

