.TH cbcsysp 8 "Version 0.3: 18 May 2020" "CMDB suite manuals" "cmdb, cbc and dnsa collection"
.SH NAME
cbcsysp \- Create Build Config System Packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cbcsysp
[
.B action
] 
[
.B type
]
[
.B specifier
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcbcsysp\fP allows you to specify debian packages to install as part of a
system's configuration. As part of the preseed install, debian packages can
be given specific configuration options. This can be useful to customise a
base build for a specifc group of servers. These servers are grouped
together into a \fIbuild domain\fP. For example, one domain may have a
central authentication mechanism, as well as a specific email relay server.
.PP
There are 3 separate types in this program. The package, the arguments for
the package and the configuration for these arguments. The package type only
has 1 argument, the package name; the package argument type has 2, the field
and the type, and the configuration type has 1, the argument. For example, the
postfix package has an argument with a field of \fBpostfix/mailname\fP and a type
\fBstring\fP. The configuration argument could be \fImailer.mydomain.com\fP.
These can be taken from running \fIdebconf-get-selections\fP on
a debian install (this requires the debconf-utils package to be installed).
When adding a configuration argument, you will need to specify the package
name and also the field you wish to configure.

.SH OPTIONS
.B actions (these do not take arguments; only 1 can be used)
.IP "-a,  --add"
add
.IP "-l,  --list"
list
.IP "-r,  --remove, --delete"
remove
.PP
.B type
.IP "-p,  --package"
package
.IP "-o,  --package-config"
configuration
.IP "-y,  --package-arg"
argument
.PP
These types specify what you wish to act upon. After adding a package, you will
most likely want to add the arguments for that package. You will then want to
add configuration for these package arguments for a specific build domain. In
this way, you can tailor your build for specific build domains.
.PP
.B specifier (these will all take an argument)
.IP "-b,  --domain, --build-domain \fBbuild-domain\fP"
build domain 
.IP "-f,  --field \fBfield\fP"
field name
.IP "-g,  --package-arg \fBargument\fP"
argument for the package
.IP "-n,  --name \fBpackage-name\fP"
package name
.IP "-t,  --type \fBtype\fP
field type. Examples are \fBstring\fP are \fBboolean\fP.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.B To add a package
.IP
\fBcbcsysp -a -p -n \fIpackage-name\fR\fP
.PP
.B To add the arguments for that package
.IP
\fBcbcsysp -a -y -f \fIfield\fP -t \fItype\fP -n \fIpackage-name>\fR
.PP
.B To add a configuration for the package
.IP
\fBcbcsysp -a -o -f \fIfield\fP -g \fIargument\fP -b \fIbuild-domain\fP -n \fIpackage-name\fR
.PP
You will need to be this specific for removing.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/dnsa/dnsa.conf
.RS
The system wide configuration file for the cmdb / dnsa / cbc suite of
programs. See
.BR dnsa.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.I ~/.dnsa.conf
.RS
User configuration for the cmdb / dnsa / cbc suite of programs. See
.BR dnsa.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
This suite of programs do not make use of environment variables at present
although this may change in the future. Watch this space!
.SH AUTHOR
Iain M Conochie <iain-at-thargoid-dot-co-dot-uk>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cbcdomain(8) cbcscript(8)

