.TH cbcvarient 8 "Version 0.3: 13 July 2020" "CMDB suite manuals" "cmdb, cbc and dnsa collection"
.SH NAME
cbcvarient \- Create Build Config Varient.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cbcvarient
[
.B action
] [
.B type
] [
.B name
] [
.B os definition
]

.B cbcvarient
[
.B -adlrvz
] [
.B -g | -j
] [
.B -k | -x
] [
.B -eonst
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcbcvarient\fP is used to define build varients based on the packages to
install.
Thus, you can create a web server build containing packages like apache and
various php modules, or an email server contain the specific email services you
would like to provide.
Each varient is based on a particular OS and version, due to the package names
being different between the various OS's.
You will need to know the precise package names you wish to add the build
varient, as these will be placed in the build file, and if the package name
does not exist the build will fail.
When adding or removing, you will need to specify a type of varient (-j)
or a package (-g)

.SH OPTIONS
.B actions
.IP "-a,  --add"
add
.IP "-d,  --display"
display
.IP "-l,  --list"
list
.IP "-r,  --remove, --delete"
remove
.IP "-z   --set-default"
set-default varient
.IP "-v,  --version"
version (no other argument needed)
.IP "-h,  --help"
display a short help message
.PP
.B name
.IP "-k,  --varient-alias \fBvarient alias\fP"
Useful to have a short alias to the more formal varient name, e.g. web
.IP "-x,  --varient \fBvarient\fP"
Use this for a long formal name of the varient, such as Web Server
.PP
.B type
.IP "-g,  --package"
package
.IP "-j,  --varient"
varient
.PP
.B os definitions
.IP "-e,  --version-alias \fBversion alias\fP"
Used by debian based distros as a code name for a particular version
.IP "-n,  --os-name \fBos name\fP"
A formal name for the OS, such as Debian
.IP "-o,  --os-version \fBos version\fP"
The version number for the OS
.IP "-s,  --os-alias \fBos alias\fP"
A shorthand name for the os, such as debian
.IP "-t, --architecture, --os-arch \fBarchitecture\fP"
The architecture of the operating system. At present only \fIi386\fP and
\fIx86_64\fP are available.
.PP
.SH FILES
.I /etc/dnsa/dnsa.conf
.RS
The system wide configuration file for the cmdb / dnsa / cbc suite of
programs. See
.BR dnsa.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.I ~/.dnsa.conf
.RS
User configuration for the cmdb / dnsa / cbc suite of programs. See
.BR dnsa.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
This suite of programs do not make use of environment variables at present
although this may change in the future. Watch this space!
.SH AUTHOR 
Iain M Conochie <iain-at-thargoid-dot-co-dot-uk>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dnsa(8),
.BR cbc(7),
.BR cbc(8),
.BR cbcdomain(8),
.BR cbclocale(8),
.BR cbcos(8),
.BR cbcpart(8)
