.TH cmdb-identity 8 "Version 0.3: 02 December 2020" "CMDB suite manuals" "cmdb, cbc and dnsa collection"
.SH NAME
cmdb-identity \- Add server user identities and passwords
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B cmdb-identity
(
.B -a | -l | -r
) [
.B -s server
] [
.B -u user
] [
.B -p
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcmdb-identity\fP will add users for the server, along with a password, into
the database to be used when building a server. The \fBroot\fP user can be
added along with a regular user.

.SH OPTIONS
.B Actions
.IP "Action options require no additional parameter."
.IP "-a,   --add"
Use this to add an identity
.IP "-l,   --list"
Use this to list the identities. Modifiers can be used to narrow down
responses
.IP "-r,   --remove"
Use this to remove an identity. Both user and server must be specified
.PP
.B Modifiers
.IP "-s,   --server \fBname\fP"
Specify the server name
.IP "-u,   --user \fBusername\fP"
Specify the username
.IP "-p,   --password"
Prompt for a password for the user. Not specifying this option will result in
a psuedo random password 25 character password.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/cmdb/cmdb.conf
.I ~/.cmdb.conf
.RS
The system wide and user configuration files for the cmdb / dnsa / cbc suite
of programs. See
.BR cmdb.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
This suite of programs do not  make use of environment variables at present
although this may change in the future. Watch this space!
.SH BUGS
While you can add users apart from root, these will not be added to the build.
.SH AUTHOR
Iain M Conochie <iain-at-thargoid-dot-co-dot-uk>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dnsa(8),
.BR cbc(7),
.BR cbc(8),
.BR cmdb(8)
