.TH cpc 8 "Version 0.2: 05 January 2016" "CMDB suite manuals" "cmdb, cbc and dnsa collection"
.SH NAME
cpc \- Create Preseed Config
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cpc
.B ( -d -e -f -h i -k -l -m -n -p -s -t -u -v -y )
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcpc\fP will create a preseed configuration file to allow you to automate the
installation of a debian based server. By default, this outputs to stdout, but
you can use the \fB-f\fP option to output to a file. Be default, it will also get
the build to create a user based on the username of the user running the program
getting username, uid and gecos fields.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-d,  --domain \fBdomain\fP"
Specifies the DNS domain of the server to be built.
.IP "-e,  --ntp-server \fBntp-server\fP"
Specifies the NTP server used to synchronise the time.
.IP "-f,  --file \fBfilename\fP"
Output the preseed configuration to the named file.
.IP "-y, --keyboard \fBcountry\fP"
Specify the country keybourd layout.
.IP "-l,  --locale \fBlocale\fP"
Specify the locale to configure in preseed.
.IP "-m,  --mirror \fBmirror\fP"
Specify the name of the mirror server to use for installation.
.IP "-n,  --name \fBname\fP"
Specify the hostname of the server.
.IP "-s,  --suite \fBsuite\fP"
Specify the suite to use e.g. stable, testing etc.
.IP "-t,  --timezone \fBtimezone\fP"
Specify the timezone to be configured in preseed.
.IP "-u,  --url \fBurl\fP"
Specify the url to add at the end of the mirror e.g. /debian.
.IP "-k,  --disk \fBhard disk drive\fP"
Specify the hard disk to install onto e.g. sda, hda. Do NOT use a preceeding /dev/
.PP
.SH FILES
.I ~/.cpc.conf
.RS
The configuration file can be used to customise the answers and not have to use
the command line options all the time.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
You can use the following envronment variables to customise your build.
.IP CPC_DISK
Define the disk to use in the build.
.IP CPC_DOMAIN
Define the DNS domain of the server to be build.
.IP CPC_INTERFACE
The network interface to use for the build. The default for this is auto.
.IP CPC_KBD
Define the keyboard layout of the build.
.IP CPC_LOCALE
Define the locale used for the build.
.IP CPC_MIRROR
The FQDN of the mirror server which the installation will use.
.IP CPC_NAME
The hostname of the server youa re building.
.IP CPC_NTPSERVER
Define the ntp server to use for time synchronisation.
.IP CPC_PACKAGES
A comma separated list of packages to install.
.IP CPC_SUITE
The suite to install. Default here is stable.
.IP CPC_TZONE
The timezone the server will be in. The default here is UTC.
.IP CPC_RPASS
The root password for the build. DANGEROUS!!
.IP CPC_UPASS
The user password for the build. DANGEROUS!!
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Iain M Conochie <iain-at-thargoid-DOT-co-DOT-uk>

