.TH DNSA 8 "Version 0.2: 03 January 2016" "CMDB suite manuals" "cmdb, cbc and dnsa collection"
.SH NAME
dnsa \- Domain Name System Administration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dnsa
[
.B action
] [
.B zone type
] [
.B options
]

.B dnsa
[
.B -abdeglmruwxvz
] [
.B -FRSG
] [
.B -IMNhinopst
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdnsa\fP is a tool to administer DNS zones and records.
You are able to add individual zones and records, and also to add reverse zones
and build those reverse zones based on what your forward zones look like.
If you have multiple records pointing to one IP address, you can choose a
preferred record for the PTR record for that IP address.
dnsa does assume some working knowledge of DNS (i.e. what record types are used
for etc), but the main goal is to simplify the administration of DNS.
This can be useful even in a small to medium size organisation where you can
have multiple sub-domains for different departments.
dnsa tries not to limit you too much in your choices, and to give you a 
flexible and powerful tool to organise your DNS infrastructure.
It should be installed on the DNS server itself.
.SH OPTIONS
.B Actions (these do not take arguments)
.IP "-a,  --add"
add host record
.IP "-b,  --build"
build a reverse zone
.IP "-d,  --display"
display a zone
.IP "-e,  --add-preferred-a"
add a preferred forward record for the PTR
.IP "-g,  --delete-preferred-a"
delete a preferred forward record
.IP "-l,  --list"
list zones
.IP "-m,  --add-cname"
add CNAME record to the root domain
.IP "-r,  --delete-record, --remove, --delete"
delete a record
.IP "-u,  --display-multi-a"
display IP's with multiple A records
.IP "-w,  --write, --commit"
write and commit valid zones on the nameserver
.IP "-x,  --delete-zone"
delete zone
.IP "-z,  --add-zone"
add zone
.IP "-v,  --version"
display version information
.PP
.B Zone type (these do not take arguments)
.IP "-F,  --forward-zone"
Forward zone
.IP "-R,  --reverse-zone"
Reverse zone
.IP "-S,  --slave-zone"
Slave zone
.IP "-G,  --glue-zone"
Glue records for delegated zone
.PP
.B Name options for all zones.
.IP "-n, --zone-name \fBzone name\fP / \fBnetwork range\fP
The name of the DNS zone / domain for forward zones or the IP range for
reverse zones. 
.PP 
.B Options for adding a reverse zone
.IP "-p,  --prefix \fBprefix\fP"
The subnet prefix for a reverse zone.
Regular classes (/8, /16 or /24) or classless prefixes (/24 -> /32) will be
accepted.
Classless prefixes between /8 -> /16 and /16 -> /24 will NOT be accepted.
.PP
.B Slave Zones

The secondary NS server will be taken from the pri_dns configuration option
in config file, which is usually the server you are working on.
.PP
.B Name options for adding slave zones.
.IP "-M,  --master-ip \fBmaster nameserver IP\fP"
This is the ip address of the master name server. 
.PP
.B Delegate zones (a.k.a. glue zones)

It can be useful to delegate control of a sub-domain to other servers, and this
options allows you to do so.
You need to use the \fB-I\fP and, optionally, the \fB-N\fP options described
below to create the \fBglue records\fP that control the delegation of the
zone.
If you wish to use name servers that are not part of the parent zone, you must
end the names specified by \fB-N\fP with a . to denote a FQDN.
Otherwise, these records will be added to the parent zone.
.PP
\fBNote:\fP You must have the zone already setup on the delegated name servers.
This includes the A records for the name servers.
If you do not then you may get errors from bind about "out of zone" records.
.PP
.B Options for adding a delegated zone and glue records
.IP "-I,  --name-server-ip \fBpri_ns_ip,sec_ns_ip\fP"
These are the IP addresses of the primary, and optionally, secondary name
servers that you are delegating the sub-domain to, and will be used in the
creation of the \fBglue records\fP.
.PP
.IP "-N,  --name-servers \fBpri_ns_name,sec_ns_name\fP"
The name of the primary, and optionally, the secondary name server(s) that will
create the \fBglue records\fP.
These will prefix the sub-domain to get the FQDN of the name server.
If these are not supplied, then the standards \fBn1\fP and \fBns2\fP will be
used.
.PP
.B Options for adding a forward host
.IP "-i,  --destination \fBdestination\fP"
This is the destination of the record.
If this is an A record type, then this will be the IP address of the host.
If this is a TXT record type, this will be the text of the record.
If this is a CNAME record type then this will be the FQDN of the destination of the CNAME.
Use the FQDN even if the CNAME points to an A record in the same domain.
.IP "-t,  --record-type \fBrecord type\fP"
This is the record type (A, MX, CNAME etc)
.IP "-h,  --host \fBhost\fP"
This is the host name of the record.
When adding a slave zone, this option can also be used to specify the FQDN of
the master DNS server.
.IP "-p,  --priority \fBpriority\fP (specifically for MX and SRV records)"
When adding an MX record this is the priority of the MX record.
.IP "-o,  --protocol \fBprotocol\fP"
This is either \fBtcp\fP or \fBudp\fP when creating an SRV record
.IP "-s,  --service \fBservice\fP"
This is the name listed in \fB/etc/services\fP for creating an SRV record.
.PP
.B Options for adding a CNAME to the root domain

If you have multiple sub-domains on the server, it can be useful to cname a
record into the root domain, to cut down on the number of search domains.
This option enables this. Specify the host and the sub-domain.
.IP "-h,  --host \fBhost\fP"
The hostname you wish to cname
.IP "-n,  --zone-name \fBdomain\fP"
The sub-domain that contains the host record
.PP
.SH FILES
.I /etc/dnsa/dnsa.conf
.RS
The system wide configuration file for the cmdb / dnsa / cbc suite of
programs. See
.BR dnsa.conf (5)
for further details
.RE
.I ~/.dnsa.conf
.RS
User configuration for the cmdb / dnsa / cbc suite of programs. See
.BR dnsa.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
This suite of programs do not make use of environment variables at present
although this may change in the future. Watch this space!
.SH AUTHOR 
Iain M Conochie <iain-at-thargoid-dot-co-dot-uk>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dnsa(7),
.BR dnsa.conf(5),
.BR cmdb(8),
.BR cbc(8)
