.TH mkvm 8 "Version 0.2: 18 May 2019" "MKVM suite manuals" "mkvm collection"
.SH NAME
mkvm \- Make Virtual Machine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkvm
[
.B action
] -c <cpus> -g <storage-volume-size> [ -k <virt-network> | -b <bridge-device> ] -n <name> -p <storage-pool> -r <ram> -u <connection-uri>
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmkvm\fP will make a virtual machine in a libvirt environment. It will do this with a root disk of \fIstorage-volume-size\fP, created in \fIstorage-pool\fP, place it on network \fIvirt-network\fP. It will add \fIcpus\fP no. of cpus, and \fIram\fP MB of RAM. You can specify the \fIconnection-uri\fP for the libvirt connection.
.SH OPTIONS
.B Actions (these do not take arguments, only one can be used)
.IP "-a,  --add"
.IP "-h,  --help"
.IP "-v,  --version"
.IP "-C,  --cmdb"
Add a defined VM to the CMDB database.
.PP
.B VM Options
.IP "-g,  --size \fBsize\fP"
This is the size of the disk for the virtual machine.
.PP
.B The next 2 options are mutually exclusive.
.IP "-k,  --network \fBname\fP"
This is the name of the virtual network to attach the VM to.
.IP "-b,  --bridge \fBnetwork bridge device\fP"
The name of the network bridge device to attach the VM to.
.IP "-n,  --name \fBname\fP"
A name for your virtual machine.
.IP "-p,  --pool \fBpool\fP"
The storage pool that contains the disk.
.IP "-c,  --cpus \fBcpus\fP"
Number of CPU's for the VM.
.IP "-r,  --ram \fBram\fP"
Amount of RAM for the VM in MB.
.IP "-u,  --uri \fBURI\fP"
Specify the libvirt connection URI
.SH FILES
.I /etc/cmdb/mkvm.conf
.RS
The system wide configuration file
.RE
.I ~/.mkvm.conf
.RS
User configuration file
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
This program does not use environment variables.
.SH AUTHOR
Iain M Conochie <iain-at-thargoid-dot-co-dot-uk>

